Team practises
==============

The following outlines how we operate as a team starting with cycle planning,
pulse by pulse and activities within each pulse.

Cycle planning
--------------

During cycle planning the high-level roadmap for 6 months is defined. This is
done towards the end of a given cycle in preparation for the next cycle. Input
comes from the team, management, and external stakeholders such as IS. Items
should be grouped by charm. Items are estimated with the engineers to establish
the number of days required to deliver an item to ensure that we don’t commit
too much during a cycle. When calculating the capacity for the cycle, use the
following rough formula:

* Number of available engineers: number at the start of the cycle + expected
  hires during the cycle * 0.5
* Estimate the number of available weeks based on the length of the cycle and
  subtract any global events such as sprints and holidays such as the end of
  year shutdown
* Reserve 20% of time for management, training, hiring, leave, public holidays
* Reserve 20% for bugs and production support

Items are prioritized by management with input from the team and external
stakeholders. Each item on the roadmap becomes an epic for the cycle with
individual stories breaking down the epic to be created by engineers and
reviewed by management. The epic should include clear requirements to explain
what is needed. This can best be facilitated by a kick-off meeting to ensure
everyone understands the scope for what is needed. This is to be done during the
engineering sprint or shortly thereafter. More guidance on sprint preparation:
`PR016 - Sprint Readiness Review (SRR) <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1baTwzRxoiEW0RuivVbBFndbbeKnX4RR0IvQeXKgz5Is/edit>`_

Project meeting
---------------

For each major group of deliverables (equivalent to an objective in Jira), e.g.
a charm with significant work to be done, a per pulse project meeting should be
held. This could also be a group of charms if there isn’t sufficient work for an
individual charm. During this meeting, the progress against the roadmap should
be reviewed. Any items that are taking longer than estimated for the cycle
should be carefully reviewed for whether the scope or something else needs to
change to finish the item or whether it should be delayed.

It is useful to do this as a meeting since it is an opportunity for discussing
specific items that could be challenging, assessing priorities of stories for
the next pulse, and clarifying and reviewing stories that were created. This
usually involves quite a bit of discussion which is why a synchronous meeting is
useful. This should include reviewing the plan in Jira, and creating any new
tickets that are required to be delivered and the priority of tickets should be
clear after the meeting.

Engineers should come prepared to this meeting with the required stories
created.

Pulse plan
----------

Based on the project meetings, a pulse statement should be prepared in advance
by engineers which identifies what each engineer is planning to do during the
next pulse. This should be reviewed during a pulse planning meeting to keep the
rest of the team up to date with the status of a given project and provide an
opportunity for input for any of the items in the pulse statement. More details
in ISD073 - Written Pulse Statements (to be updated)

Stand up
--------

Each day during the pulse a stand up should be held. Engineers should discuss
what they were working on before and what is next, let the manager know if they
don’t have sufficient work to be going on with and discuss any blockers for
resolution. It is also a chance to discuss any technical challenges potentially
after each engineer has given their regular update.

There should be a standup scheduled for each timezone the team operates in.
There will be projects being worked on across different time zones. The
`Standup Project Allocations <https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Gz0Owj7h_DzFCDz7g6-mU-VA9smer_DJPDKffMtnMfU/edit?usp=sharing>`_
defijnes which projects are discussed at a specific stand up and who should come
to a given standup. Engineers must attend the stand up they have been allocated
and give their update and are welcome to attend any other stand up as well. The
project allocations to stand ups will be done to find a best match to ensure
that everyone working on a project is in the same stand up. The stand up times
will be adjusted on a best effort basis to accommodate engineers being able to
attend and DST changes.

Retro
-----

Towards the end of each pulse a retrospective should be held where the pulse
statement is reviewed for the result of each of the items that was intended for
the pulse which should be prepared in advance by the engineers, if not already
done during a project meeting. This should be done on the pulse statement as
discussed in ISD073 - Written Pulse Statements (to be updated).

Additionally, the retro should be used as an opportunity to get feedback on team
processes, external blockers, recognize achievements in the cycle, and discuss
any challenges the team is facing in general. This should also be prepared in
advance by everyone in the team using
`Team Improvement Ideas <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1S-YjcjWic1xZ9uPLvXNNY8mMCYtsZ3OTtohpZsQlVGA/edit?usp=sharing>`_.
The ideas in this document should be reviewed and any new or in-progress items
discussed.

Cycle Retro
-----------

During the engineering sprint the cycle should be reviewed especially for any
items that were planned but not delivered.
