Pulse planning
==============

Project meeting
---------------

For each major group of deliverables (equivalent to an objective in Jira), e.g.
a charm with significant work to be done, a per pulse project meeting should be
held. This could also be a group of charms if there isn’t sufficient work for an
individual charm. During this meeting, the progress against the roadmap should
be reviewed. Any items that are taking longer than estimated for the cycle
should be carefully reviewed for whether the scope or something else needs to
change to finish the item or whether it should be delayed.

It is useful to do this as a meeting since it is an opportunity for discussing
specific items that could be challenging, assessing priorities of stories for
the next pulse, and clarifying and reviewing stories that were created. This
usually involves quite a bit of discussion which is why a synchronous meeting is
useful. This should include reviewing the plan in Jira, and creating any new
tickets that are required to be delivered and the priority of tickets should be
clear after the meeting.

Engineers should come prepared to this meeting with the required stories
created.

Stand up
--------

Each day during the pulse a stand up should be held. Engineers should discuss
what they were working on before and what is next, let the manager know if they
don’t have sufficient work to be going on with and discuss any blockers for
resolution. It is also a chance to discuss any technical challenges potentially
after each engineer has given their regular update.

There should be a standup scheduled for each timezone the team operates in.
There will be projects being worked on across different time zones. The
`Standup Project Allocations <https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Gz0Owj7h_DzFCDz7g6-mU-VA9smer_DJPDKffMtnMfU/edit?usp=sharing>`_
defines which projects are discussed at a specific stand up and who should come
to a given standup. Engineers must attend the stand up they have been allocated
and give their update and are welcome to attend any other stand up as well. The
project allocations to stand ups will be done to find a best match to ensure
that everyone working on a project is in the same stand up. The stand up times
will be adjusted on a best effort basis to accommodate engineers being able to
attend and DST changes.
